Now, let's have a look at renderer.h and renderer.cpp.
At the top of renderer.h,
we include the SDL library,
we also include the snake header since we'll be using the snake object in this class.
We have methods render and update window title.
Render will be used to render the snake object and the food to the screen,
and update window title updates the bar at the top of
the game window with the score and the frames per second.
Frames per second is useful if your game is running
slow and you're trying to debug later on.
We have private attributes where we keep a pointer to an SDL window object,
and a pointer to an SDL render object,
which we'll discuss later.
We also have some constants, screen width,
screen height, grid width,
and grid height that we store.
Over in render.cpp, we have the render constructor.
In order to construct an SDL window,
there are several steps.
First, we need to initialize SDL,
and we do this by calling SDL Init with the SDL Init video flag.
Let's have a look at the documentation to see what's going on here.
So the documentation tells us that this function is used to initialize the SDL library,
and this must be called before using most other SDL functions.
In our case, we have initialized
this with the SDL Init video since we're only using video.
However, we could also have initialized with the SDL Init audio flag or
SDL Init joystick or SDL Init a game controller or any of the other flag shown here.
After SDL is initialized,
we want to create the window.
So we do this by calling SDL create window
which returns a pointer that we store in SDL window.
Let's go look at the documentation for SDL create window to see what's going on there.
So we see that SDL window is created with an x and y position and a width and a height.
We also see that for x and y,
we can pass in the flag SDL window position centered, which is what we do.
This creates a window that is centered in the screen.
So here, we pass in for SDL window position centered,
and SDL window position centered for y,
we pass in the screen width and screen height,
and also the SDL window shown to make sure that the window is visible.
The last step in the constructor is to create a renderer.
We do this by calling SDL create renderer,
which returns the pointer,
and we store that in SDL renderer.
Let's go look at the documentation for that too.
So SDL create renderer is used to create a 2D rendering context for a window,
and this allows us to pass in some parameters that will be
useful for defining how the renderer works.
In particular, we pass in an index which says the index of the rendering driver used to
initialize or negative one to initialize the first one supporting the requested flags.
In our case, we pass in the negative one.
We also pass in this flag SDL renderer accelerated,
and if we look down at the definition that flag in the documentation,
we see SDL renderer accelerated,
which says that the renderer uses hardware acceleration if it's available.
Once we've done that, we've created a window that we can render
to and a rendering object that we can call to render to that window.
Next, we have the destructor for this class which destroys the SDL window and quits SDL,
and then last, we have the render method.
So in render, we pass in a snake and some food,
and we want to render those to the screen.
We start by defining an SDL rectangle called block.
If we look at the documentation for SDL rectangle,
we see that SDL rectangles are objects that have an x and a y position.
The x location of the rectangle is up the left corner,
and the y location of the rectangle is up the left corner,
and a width and a height.
In our case, we're going to set the width and
the height of this block to be the screen width divided by the grid width.
So we've divided the screen width up into a grid,
and basically, the width is the width of one cell in the grid.
So we've divided the screen width by the number of cells in the width of the grid.
We've divided the screen height by the number of cells in the height of the grid.
The next step is to clear the screen.
So we call SDL set render draw color.
We pass in our renderer object,
and we define a color here,
which will be basically black on the screen.
We can quickly look at the documentation for that as well.
SDL set renderer draw color is
a function that we use to set the color for drawing operations.
The arguments for this are RGB for the red, green,
and blue values, and then A for the Alpha,
which is basically opacity.
So in our case, we've set the renderer draw color,
then we call SDL render clear with our renderer,
and what render clear does is to basically draw that color over the entire screen.
So SDL render clear,
we use this function to clear
the current rendering target with the drawing color that we specified previously.
So once the screen is clear,
we can render the food.
So we set the color again,
and this is set to a yellow color in this case,
and we use the block object that's defined above,
and we are going to set the block x and the block y.
Now, food is passed in with x and y here
representing the cell in the grid, and so basically,
to set the block exposition,
we take the cell number and we multiply it by the block width,
and we take the y cell number and we multiply by the black height,
and we got block x and y.
Finally, we call SDL render fill rectangle with our renderer and that block,
and then we'll fill that block in with a specified color.
We won't look at the documentation for this,
but you're welcome to go look at the documentation on the SDL the week in.
Next, we do something similar for the snake,
so we set the draw color here.
So for the snake's body we're setting the color to white,
and for each point in snake.body,
here snake.body is a vector of SD points.
SDL points or an SDL point is basically a struct with an x and a y coordinate.
So we have the snake body here,
it's a vector of SDL points.
For each point in the body,
we set the block x and block y just as we did above,
and then we fill that block with this color and render it to the screen.
Again, we do the same for the snake's head.
In this case, we'll discuss this later,
but the snake's head have float x and y coordinates,
and so we cast them to integers.
So now we have the x and y cell for the snake's head,
and we do basically the same processes as above.
We render the snake's head,
if the snake is alive,
we're rendering the head one color.
If the snake is dead,
basically the game has stopped,
we're rendering the snake had a different color.
We call SDL render fill rectangle with our render objects and that block,
and then we update the screen.
Down here, we have the update window title defined.
So we create a string called title,
and title is snake score.
We put the score in here, frames per second.
We convert the frames per second to screen,
and then we set the window title using our SDL window object and the title string.